The Parliament passed the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Bill, 2016 to give effect to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (India is a signatory to the UNCRPD and ratified it in 2007.) and related matters.Further it is also in line with SDGs as the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development pledges to “leave no one behind”.
In the bill, disability has been defined based on an evolving and dynamic concept.

1.The number of the disabled in India is anywhere between 5 and 10 per cent of the population and their integration into the mainstream is a developmental and economic imperative
2. This Act repels the old disabilities act and instead of seven disabilities specified in the old Act, the Bill covers 19 conditions.
3. Violation of any provision of the Act is punishable with imprisonment up to six months, and/or fine of Rs 10,000
4. Additional benefits such as reservation in higher education, government jobs, reservation in allocation of land, poverty alleviation schemes etc. have been provided
5. Creation of National and State Fund will be created to provide financial support to the persons with disabilities
6. Special Courts will be designated in each district to handle cases concerning violation of rights of PwDs

Key Issues and Analysis
------------------------
1. Is it appropriate for Parliament to impose legal and financial obligations on states and municipalities with regard to disability, which is a State List subject
2. The Financial Memorandum does not provide any estimate of the financial resources required to meet obligations

GOVT. Initiatives
-----------------
1. The ‘Pro bono legal services’ initiative by department of justice helps the marginalized and they can also apply for legal aid and advice from the pro bono lawyers
2. Facilities are provided in public spaces like battery Operated Vehicles for carrying passengers before/after the train journey, especially senior citizens and persons with disabilities
3.Deendayal Disabled Rehabilitation Scheme (DDRS) under which grant-in-aid is provided to Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) for running special schools.
4. 4% reservation alloted in government jobs under this Act.



