- Four major reasons: massive expenditure; diversion of security and civil staff from primary duties; impact on governance due to the model code of conduct, and disruption to normal public life
- PM has asked the Election Commission to carry forward the idea of simultaneous polls in consultation with political parties which is very forward looking, economic and rational

FOR 
---
1. The teachers in our education sector have to go for the election work, which affects the quality of education.
2. The Model Code of Conduct (MCC) which comes into force with the announcement of poll dates, prevents government from announcing any new schemes, make any new appointments, transfers and postings without the approval of election commission (stalling the governance)
3. It also destabilises duly-elected governments and imposes a heavy burden on the exechequer
4. This will enable greater space for parties w.r.t policy making as they are in constant campaign mode.
5. This will help save public money
6. Frequent elections affect policymaking and governance as the government is trapped in short-term thinking
7. The idea of state-funding of elections can also be implementd, which drastically eliminates the scope to curb the influence of money power

AGAINST 
-------
1. local and national issues do not get mixed up to distort priorities when held separately. [Influencing the Voter behaviour and also the Rajya Sabha which is a representation of States at the Centre acting as a check on Lok Sabha might have a dominance of the members of the same party at the Centre]
2. a staggered electoral cycle also acts as a check against demagoguery, fascism and oligarchy, in that order
3. premature dissolution of state assemblies in subsequent years disturbs the cycle [ a. 356 ] and in some cases if Lok Sabha is also dissolved prematurly, then the cycle gets disturbed.
4. Having frequent elections enhances accountability, keeps the political executives on their toes
5. It impinge on the political autonomy of States [Cooperative federalism]

Alternative method:
-------------------
1. An alternative and practicable method is holding elections in two phases
2. Elections of some assemblies can be held at mid-term of Lok Sabha and remaining with the end of tenure of Lok Sabha. [In order to achieve this, the tenure of the existing state assemblies will have to be curtailed or extended by some months]
3. Instead of no confidence, there should be a confidence motion in which the party remains the same, only the person concerned is removed and a new face comes in
4. Election Commission is also empowered by the Representation of the People Act, 1951 to call an election six months prior to the end of the normal term of the Lok Sabha or any state assembly



Way ahead:
----------
1. The concerns and suggestions of different stakeholders will have to be debated in order to build political consensus around the idea.
2. The proposal will not only have economic benefits but will free up precious political space for policy discussions
3. The problem of premature dissolution has diminished significantly after the passage of the anti-defection law and the Supreme Court’s landmark Bommai judgement
4. It will also help in taking forward the process of economic reforms as decisions will not always be hostage to assembly elections

