REf: http://www.nhm.gov.in/nrhm-components/rmnch-a/maternal-health/janani-shishu-suraksha-karyakram/background.html

Background
-----------
In order to reduce the maternal and infant mortality, Reproductive and Child Health Programme under the National Rural health Mission (NHM) is being implemented to promote institutional deliveries so that skilled attendance at birth is available and women and new born can be saved from pregnancy related deaths.

New Situation
--------------
High out of pocket expenses being incurred by pregnant women and their families in the case of institutional deliveries in form of drugs, User charges, diagnostic tests, diet, for C –sections. 

The New Initiative
-------------------
In view of the difficulty being faced by the pregnant women and parents of sick new- born along-with high out of pocket expenses incurred by them , MoHFW has taken a major initiative to provide completely free and cashless services to pregnant women including normal deliveries and caesarean operations and sick new born(up to 30 days after birth) in Government health institutions in both rural & urban areas.

Key features of the scheme:
---------------------------
1. The initiative entitles all pregnant women delivering in public health institutions to absolutely free and no expense delivery, including caesarean section.
2. The entitlements include free drugs and consumables, free diet up to 3 days during normal delivery and up to 7 days for C-section, free diagnostics, and free blood wherever required. This initiative also provides for free transport from home to institution, between facilities in case of a referral and drop back home. Similar entitlements have been put in place for all sick newborns accessing public health institutions for treatment till 30 days after birth.This has now been expanded to cover sick infants:  
3. The scheme aims to eliminate out of pocket expenses incurred by the pregnant women and sick new borns while accessing services at Government health facilities.


